# Algorithms and Data Structures

The second artifact enhancement for the ePortfolio consists of applying algorithms and data structures theory to a project. The artifact utilized for using algorithms and data structures is the fourth milestone of CS 405: Secure Coding. Within this milestone, a data structure for a collection and algorithms that coincide with the data structure utilize unit testing methods. In addition to the unit testing methods, various input validation methods implement security for creating secure code. I started this artifact in August of 2021. This artifact was made relatively recently, which shows my current safe coding abilities.

The original artifact's functionality overview consists of testing a data structure named collection and testing various algorithms. The algorithm tests include positive and negative tests to check fundamentals on capacity; index sizes out of bounds, and entry size. The features of the original artifact include tests using ASSERT, EXPECT, input validation conditions, and minimal C++ coding standards. In addition, the functionality within the original artifact utilizes principles of Quality Assurance that enhance efficiency further. 

Find the original artifact [here.](https://github.com/GalarianRapidash2345/Enhancement-Two/blob/main/OriginalTest.cpp)


The ePortfolio justifies the inclusion and the implementation of the artifact. The reasons I selected this item include the artifact illustrating the advanced application of algorithms and data structures, the demonstration of secure coding principles within the artifact, and the artifact containing relevant industry skills for a career in Software Engineering. The specific components of the artifact that showcase my skills and abilities in algorithms and data structures are the unit tests for the data structure and the unit tests for the various algorithms. The data structure tests are instantiated using object-oriented programming techniques and use assertions for input validation. Each data structure test either determines the data structure to be empty or has an allocation size. The algorithm tests contain similar statements for input validation, and each algorithm test either verifies entries or tests the bounds of the data structure. The functionality of these tests shows my abilities to create data structures and algorithms properly with advanced skills, such as combining the initialization of the data structures and algorithms with unit testing methods. How the artifact has improved is through the addition of efficiency checking for the unit tests. I ran the artifact through the tool CppCheck, which analyzed the artifact's vulnerabilities, style, and performance issues. The artifact utilized C++ coding standards to replace strings with symbolics, deallocate memory, add large entries to the collection data structure, and test all indexes, subscripts, and pointers against the array, record, and file bounds. These improvements eliminated most vulnerabilities and warnings within the CppCheck tool. The artifact is conclusive to be suited to the ePortfolio, as the industry-related components and enhancements are pragmatic for algorithms and data structures.

The enhanced artifact functionality consists of improving the data structure, improving an algorithm test, testing efficiency size out of bounds, refining the CanAddToEmptyVectorTest, and demonstrating how to analyze efficiency using analysis tools such as CppCheck. The collection class redefines itself as a unique collection that will hold large entries. The tests that were enhanced include CanAddToEmptyVector and ExceptionCollectionSizeOutOfBounds. In addition, I enhanced the tests regarding capacity, entries, and size for efficiency. The enhanced functionality utilized large data to test the performance of the collection algorithms interacting with the data structure. These initial enhancements have increased the style and performance, coinciding with the efficiency as well.

Find the enhanced artifact [here.](https://github.com/GalarianRapidash2345/Enhancement-Two/blob/main/EnhancementTest.cpp)

The overall development process consists of initializing a new data structure test, a new algorithm test, refining the CanAddToEmptyVector test, and an exception test. I implemented the latest tests and used C++ coding standards to improve the artifact within the new source files I created. My outcome-coverage plans' updates include instantiating a new class for the unique collection data structure and starting a new testing environment that will allow the enhancement source files to execute. Reflecting on enhancing the artifact, I gained a broader understanding of how to implement algorithms and data structures. As I was creating and improving the artifact, I learned to use coding standards, unit tests, and analysis tools to verify the initialization of data structures and algorithms. In addition, I learned how to test more significant amounts of data within a collection. When creating the enhancements, I faced several testing issues and typed errors when initializing the new tests. I resolved the testing issues by deallocating the data structure test instead of adding more data. In addition, I fixed the type errors by using the command size() to initialize data instead of retrieving the data with the command get(). By resolving the challenges, it is conclusive that I have gained the skills to use algorithms and data structures in advanced applications.


Reflecting on the enhancements for artifact two, I gained experiences in stakeholder decision-making, working in collaborative environments, and communication. Other experiences include approaches to solving complex logic problems, the designing and evaluating of computing solutions, and the development of a security mindset for this artifact. I used coding standards for stakeholder decision-making, created documentation within the enhanced artifact, and implemented a policy. In addition, I incorporated the feedback to clean the artifact while working in a collaborative environment. I then worked on readability and formatting for my experience with communication. For the approaches to solving complex logic problems, I created pseudocode and discussed my strategies on the code review page of this ePortfolio. In addition, I designed and evaluated computing solutions based on the approaches and utilizing tools such as CppCheck. I then developed a security mindset by implementing unit tests, input validation, and refining the artifacts' classes and objects. These experiences solidified my abilities in the algorithms and data structures category.



## Optional
Find the CppCheck analysis [here.](https://github.com/GalarianRapidash2345/Enhancement-Two/blob/main/CS%20499%20Algorithms%20Enhancement%202.xml)



# References
